Update initial outline (#14)
gaphor/presentations: state-of-python-in-gnome-2025/presentation.md

* Overview of GNOME Python ecosystem and its importance (3 min)

## About Us

```{=latex}
\begin{center}
```
![](picture.jpg)
```{=latex}
\end{center}
```

- Arjan Molenaar

- Dan Yeaw (pronounced: Yaw)
- Originally from California, now live in Michigan

- PyGObject and Gaphor

::: notes

Hi, I'm Dan Yeaw and I'm Arjan Molenaar, and we are sooo excited to talk to you
about Showing up for Python in GNOME!!

We have been helping to maintain PyGObject and have been GNOME Foundation members
for the last couple years.

Arjan:

Dan:
As Engineering Manager for Open Source Software at Anaconda, I lead teams
working on projects including BeeWare, PyScript, Jupyter, and fsspec. Over the
past seven years, I've been actively contributing to open source projects while
building the Michigan Python community as a leader and organizer.

We also help maintain a Python GTK app called Gaphor which is a GNOME Circle
app for doing SysML and UML modeling. I also help maintain Gvsbuild which is
a build system for GTK on Windows.

:::

## GNOME Python

- PyGObject is the GTK and related library bindings for Python

![](app-icons.png){height=65%}

::: notes

> PyGObject is Python in GNOME. It is the successor to PyGTK that James Henstridge started in 1998 that uses gobject-introspection directly to allow you to build GNOME apps using Python. If you see the patterns in the app icons here, those deep interests that people geek out on includes drawing and art, modeling, graphing, music, genealogy, manga, classic gaming, and scientific reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PyGObject is Python in GNOME. It is the successor to PyGTK that James Henstridge started in 1998 that uses the girepository library to allow you to build GNOME apps using Python. If you see the patterns in the app icons here, those deep interests that people geek out on includes drawing and art, modeling, graphing, music, genealogy, manga, classic gaming, and scientific reports.
```

* Automatic release pipeline (3 min)
* Other notable improvements (5 min)

## What's Next in GNOME Python (10 min total)

* Continuing to improve APIs and Python API doc examples (4 min)
* Vision and roadmap for the future (6 min)

## Wrap-up (7 min total)

* Call to action: How to get involved (3 min)
* Resources and support channels (2 min)
* Contact information and Q&A invitation (2 min)

## Call to Action

https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/pygobject

- Contributions of any kind will help continue to help the community thrive
- Submit and help triage issues
- Continue to help us improve the docs
- Help us fix bugs and implement features
- Add examples to Workbench
- Build projects with PyGObject
- Chat with us at #python:gnome.org

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Blog and create videos

```
